Invitation: special issue of RPP on Joint Action

Dear %(name)s,

Natalie Sebanz and I have been invited to propose a special issue of the journal "Review of Philosophy and Psychology" on the topic of joint action.  As part of the proposal we have been asked to identify two or three people who would be willing in principle to make invited contributions to the special issue.  We would be delighted if you were willing in principle to accept an invitation to contribute a paper to the issue.

The deadline for contributions would be late 2010 and the special issue would not appear in paper until 2011, although it will appear online as soon as we have all the contributions.

I have included a paragraph explaining the aims of the issue, and a link with information about the journal (see below).  Please let me know if you would be willing in principle to accept our invitation to contribute a paper.

best wishes,
Steve


Review of Philosophy and Psychology:

http://bit.ly/rpp_issues

http://bit.ly/rpp_board


Joint Action: What is Shared?

Researchers have appealed to many kinds of sharing in explaining or characterising joint action.  Joint actions are variously said to involve shared intentions or goals, shared task representations, shared attention, shared common ground, and more.  Each putative case of sharing raises numerous questions.  Is talk of sharing in this context literal or metaphorical; and if metaphorical, how is the metaphor to be understood?  Is such sharing constitutively necessary for joint action?  What cognitive and conceptual demands does such sharing place on the agents?  How does such sharing facilitate joint action?  How does it develop?  What is its role in development?  What awareness of other agents of a joint action, if any, does such sharing require?  In what ways is such sharing apparent to us when we perceive or recognise joint actions done by others?  Further questions concern interactions and conceptual relations between the different kinds of sharing.  Do shared intentions interact with shared task representations?  How many kinds of sharing are involved in joint action—are intentions shared in the same sense that task representations are, for instance?  The proposed issue aims to address questions such as these with contributions from social, cognitive and developmental psychology, cognitive neuroscience and philosophy.

Themes that contributors to the special issue may address include (but are not limited to):
* Plural predication and joint action
* Development of joint action and social understanding
* Shared intention
* Mechanisms for joint action
* Joint action and understanding other minds
