*Joint Action: What is shared?*

Themes: integration of levels / significance of plurals / joint action deintellectualised / perception of joint action

Here are two extreme positions.  Joint action involves shared intention.  Joint action involves sharing nothing other than an environment and bodily constraints.  


Issues contributors may address include:

Perception of joint action.

Plurals.

Joint action may invovle sharing at multiple levels.  Is talk of sharing in this context more than a colourful metaphor?  How are the levels of sharing integrated?





Who to invite?

1. Bratman
2. Mike Martin [Thomas Smith]
3. liz Pacherie
4. Wolfgang Prinz
5. Celia Brown
Richard Schmidt (Mike Richardson &c)



"What is/(needs to be) shared for joint action?"


What kinds of sharing are involved in joint action?

gesture & language



One of my broad aims would be to put pressue on the idea that joint action needs to be characterised in intellectualist terms.  


Theme?

- Should include something on what joint action is

- "Perceiving and Planning Joint Actions"?  "In what ways, if any, is mental state ascription necessary for joint action?"

- From Natalie's ESF proposal: " Three processes are critical for joint action: task co-representation (the ability to form a mental representation of a co-actor’s task); joint attention (the ability to attend to objects or events together); and temporal coordination (the ability to adjust the timing of one’s own actions to others’ actions). "  How about focussing on the first of these.

- "One main challenge for future work seems to be to understand how lower-level processes like action simulation and higher-level processes like verbal communication and mental state attribution work in concert, and under which circumstances they can overrule each other. Before we get to understand these interactions, a good dose of ecological, motor, and evolutionary spices seems like a healthy addition to the heavily mentalistic stew previously cooked up in solitary armchairs." (TOPS paper)

1)

2) Joint Action

3) 

4) Stephen Butterfill, Department of Philosophy, University of Warwick.  

5)

6) Phil, dev & cog

7) I would like a phil & a developmentalist
+ Bratman, Pacherie, Thomas Smith (Manchester plurals person)
+ Liszkowski, (Carpenter, Grafenhain*, Moll, Fawcett*, ) *too junior to invite but would solicit submissions from?

+ Daniel Richardson
+ Stephan de la Rosa (JAM3), fast perception of joint action
+ Kessler (claim that body awareness plays a role in spatial perspective taking on the basis that the time it takes to make judgements about left-relative-to-another is correlated with the degree of rotation they are away from oneself)


8) JAM3, Warwick workshop, 'Perspectives on Joint Action'