[Not sure whether these were done  or not]

1. I think the 'synergy' section is really important and it would be good to add a sentence early in the paper advertising that we will explore synergies.  I also suggest (in the comments on the paper) that the synergy section might somehow say more about the relation between processes of emergent coordination and shared task representations specifically, or at least flag up some issues about possible synergies that deserve investigation.

2. To what extent does the review establish that emergent coordination facilitates joint action (other than in cases where the agents' intention is to do something which directly requires this), and to what extent are we claiming this as a daring (but theoretically very attractive, of course) conjecture?  As I read the paper, apart from facilitating comprehension in conversation, I don't see studies addressing how processes of emergent coordination directly facilitate joint action.  (Much of the 'Consequences of emergent coordination' section is about liking and motivation.)  I don't think this is a problem, I would just suggest that, if I'm right, we should say something explicit about there being relatively little evidence now.

3. Section on 'Interpersonal factors' (pp. 32ff.).  I think this is a really important section but I wonder if it might might be slightly recast: the material reviewed concerns how shared task representations interact with the beliefs, intentions and attitudes that philosophical accounts of joint action have focussed on.  (E.g. comparing competitive and cooperative interactions "may reveal effects of particular prior intentions on task performance", p. 33).  It would be elegant to link the "nuts and bolts" back to the philosophical accounts that were mentioned in the introduction (or perhaps this is not so interesting to the target audience?).  We might cast it as a parallel to 'Synergies between planned and emergent coordination' -- it concerns synergies between the nuts & bolts and the higher levels of planned coordination.
     The picture I have in mind (which I think we share) is this: while the nuts and bolts of planned coordination are shared task representations, shared perceptions and the like, there are also cases of planed coordination where common knowledge, shared goals or shared intentions play a role as well.  But these states are not replacements for shared task representations; typically, both are necessary.  One possibility might have been that there are no direct representational relations between shared task representations and what agents believe or intend, so that what an agent thinks she is doing, what mood she is in, whether she thinks she is competing or cooperating or acting alone, makes no difference at all to whether she forms shared task representations.  But these studies show that this is not the case.
