Christopher woodward reviews 

Reviewer #1: "Rationality and the Unit of Action" 
(Special issue of The Review of Philosophy and Psychology) 

Referee Report 

In this paper, the author examines the idea of an "extended unit of action," i.e. the claim that agents can have a distinctive reason to perform some action because the action is part of some larger pattern of actions which is good or right. The possibility of such "pattern-based" reasons conflicts with the standard view of "act-based" reasons for action, according to which the relevant unit of action is always identical to the action under consideration. The author surveys several theoretical contexts in which extended units of action can be fruitfully put to work, and convincingly responds to two main objections. 

As the author states in the beginning of the paper, the notion of an extended unit of action is relatively weak compared to stronger notions of joint ("group") agency. However, this doesn't mean it's not worth exploring from a broader "joint action"-perspective, because even those stronger notions of joint agency arguably require an account of "pattern-based" reasons. The author gives us a good idea of why we need such an account, how it would look like, and why action theorists in general should care about it. 

My main concerns/comments about the paper have to do with its organizational structure - especially while keeping in mind the more interdisciplinary target audience of ROPP. As the author recognizes, the notion of a "unit of action" is severely ambiguous in a variety of different ways (e.g. between unit of action vs. unit of agency; normative vs. psychological dimensions of reasons, causal-predictive vs. normative-deliberative stance, etc.). Hence unless the central notion of a "unit of action" has been made sufficiently clear, it is impossible to appreciate the author's arguments for an extension of said unit. However, the few introductory remarks are too brief and compressed to convey what this debate is really about, and what's at stake. Hence I found myself abruptly thrown into a number of case studies whose real significance I didn't really comprehend until later. 

Speaking of my own experience, this understanding occurred in two steps: First, with the discussion of the Prisoner's Dilemma (1.3). Since this may be the most salient of the four contexts which the author discusses, it may be helpful to use it as the first of the four examples to illustrate the notion of an "extended unit of action". But even the discussion of the PD raised a lot of further questions about what exactly the author has in mind with her notion of a "unit of action," which were only clarified later, namely in Section 3. By then, the reader is already way past the case studies, and would now have to go back and re-read the case studies in order to grasp their full significance. This suggests that the organizational structure of the paper is a bit backwards. 

There are several fairly easy ways of fixing this organizational problem. Here's one suggestion: split the current Section 2; move the first part (pp. 11-15) before the four case studies; and move the second part (pp. 15-17) after the four case studies. In particular, use pp. 11-15, which contains a very clear statement of the main issue, as a more substantive introduction (following the opening paragraphs), before moving on to the case studies. After the case studies, discuss the (i) magical thinking and (ii) recklessness objections (maybe as two subsections of one "objections and replies" type section?). Surely several other solutions are possible. 

As part of the conceptual introduction to the main topic at hand, the author should also state with an even greater emphasis (besides e.g. on p. 2, right at the end of the introduction) that the debate between the "standard view" and the "extended view" is concerned with the normative dimension of reasons for action. This immediately directs the reader to the issue of justification, and away e.g. from the post-Davidsonian debate between causalist and non-causalist models of reasons explanations. I take the latter to be a largely orthogonal issue, because the conflict between "act-based" and "pattern-based" views of action justification would seem to arise on both causalist and non-causalist views of reasons explanations. 

I would like the author to say more clearly what underlying notion of rationality she takes to be at play in her concept of reasons for action (and thus the debate between act-based and pattern-based views). Because from a purely causal-psychological perspective of reasons explanations, there's lots of evidence that people do at least sometimes perform an action A because A is part of a larger, collective pattern of action P which they perceive as being good or right. For instance, a main reason frequently cited by programmers for why they contribute to the open source community is because they believe in the collective value gained by making software freely accessible (Lerner, Tirole, & Pathak, 2006). If I understand the argument correctly, wouldn't this be an instance of a pattern-based reason, provided that the individual programmer's reason for contributing is to conceive her contribution as part of a "good or right" open source project, not (just?) because it's a cause of an open source project? 

(Footnote: Of course, programmers may also benefit personally by having their name associated with a prestigious open source project. This would be a different, selfish reason for action. Nevertheless, wouldn't it also be a case of pattern-based reasons, since the selfish motif becomes action-relevant only to the extent that one's individual contribution becomes part of a larger prestigious project?) 

At any rate, if our open source case is a case of pattern-based reasons for (individual) action, we can add a lot of similar examples. We know that people frequently identify with the groups to which they belong, and important social group memberships become part of a person's self-identity (Smith, Seger, & Mackie, 2007). When this happens, people seek out all sorts of ways to protect, perpetuate, and advance the group. Evidence from sports fans, political movements, families, and churches indicates that people are often so motivated (Haidt, Seder, & Kesebir, 2008). Coming from a different angle, Margaret Gilbert's (1989) idea of "participant reasons" seems to belong into this category as well, albeit with the additional requirement that group members must be jointly committed to act as a body (which presumably reflects the "mirroring assumption" made on her part). 

Hence in light of the open source case, I would like the author to clarify: does the "standard view" of reasons for action (implausibly!) deny that people sometimes act for such reasons, or do they just deny that those reasons are good reasons for action? And correspondingly, is the main goal of the author's conception of pattern-based reasons to propose a revised theory of rationality which helps explaining why people do have good reasons to act thusly? 

I also have one minor comment about the author's claim that we "suspend [the predictive] stance towards the behavior that is part of the unit of action" (p. 16; see also p. 17). I agree with the author's observation that pattern-based reasons to do A are conceptually distinct from our predictive stance towards pieces of behavior that are part of the relevant unit of action. However, I'm not sure if the locution "suspend [the predictive stance]" is all that appropriate. As the author herself points out on the same page (p. 16), predictions about how other people are likely to react to my choices are in fact psychologically relevant to my deliberations, and are likely to affect my choice of the relevant unit of action. This means that people regularly take the predictive and the deliberative stance at one and the same time. So it's not entirely true that the actor completely "suspends" the predictive stance (although the philosopher who reflects on the whole scenario may well do so). 

Finally, some comments about the case studies (section 2). First, the last "methodological" paragraph in section 1.1 may profitably be used as a preamble to the entire section of case studies. Second, the author argues that the "extended unit of action" view provides a better theoretical gloss on possibilist views about moral obligation (p. 5). I'm not entirely sure how this is supposed to work, so perhaps the author could spell this out further for me. Is the suggestion that we ought to consider the relevant extended unit of action as a set of actual and possible (but performable) actions by an actor, and then the debate would be which of those actions generates reasons for the actor here-and-now? How exactly is that a superior view of the debate? In particular, how does "putting things this way explain which particular 'merely possible' consequences are the subject of the dispute" (p. 5)? Doesn't the exact same problem of the vagueness of accessibility relations which determines the scope of "performable actions" recur in the individuation of what's the "relevant extended unit of action"? But perhaps that's not the real issue here; so please elaborate on that part of the case study. 



Reviewer #2: This is a clearly written piece defending the idea that a pattern of action, perhaps extending across several people or with one person extending across time, can be what the author describes as a unit of action. A unit of action for these purposes is something that can be done for reasons. So for example one response to the Prisoners' Dilemma is to say that a non-betraying act (suboptimal according to standard decision theory) is rationalised as being part of an extended action involving both participants, where this extended action is the right thing for them to be doing (jointly) for the obvious reasons. This raises the question of how to characterize the relationship between the individual action and the extended or joint action in such a way as to explain how the individual action isn't simply reckless. The author sketches a few possible responses, but does not develop a detailed account of how individual action fits into joint action and of how the reasons for the joint action become reasons for the individual components of that action. I think that, overall, the suggestions made in this paper, though plausible, are distinctly sketchy. And for that reason I somewhat reluctantly don't recommend it for publication. 



Reviewer #3: Review 

This is a well-written paper, whose values lie primarily in the way the author connects various theoretical contexts in which practical rationality is discussed, drawing on the concept of the unit of action. In turn, the author reaches a sharper understanding of the 'extended' nature of rationality. The paper merits publication, as it will broaden the scope of the literature on collective/shared action, which is the theme of the special issue of the Journal. Here are some comments, both substantial and stylistic. (I happen to be familiar more with team reasoning than with other theories so my comments focus on that). They are mostly suggestions, and the author doesn't have to respond to every point, but I would like to see some of the points being answered/clarified in the final version of the paper (in particular 1, 2 and 3). 

1.	I'm still not convinced that pattern-based reasons are not causal considerations 'at all'. I understand that the 'focus' is on the whole-part relationship rather than the cause-effect relationship, but it is hard to think that the individual agent's reasons (pattern-based or not) justify (or explain in descriptive cases) his/her actions without referring to its causal power (maybe Kantian ethics allows for this, but not utilitarianism). E.g., my reasons for voting are pattern-based; now, my vote may be inconsequential in the sense that it doesn't make any difference whatsoever to the specific result of an election, but it causally contributes to making democratic elections in general possible, and so does any other voter's vote. It is causal in the sense that if each voter chooses not to vote then the democracy won't function. It seems that this causal consideration provide some reason to vote, and yet not magical in the sense specified by the author. My question is: can we still say that the whole-part relation alone exhausts pattern-based reasons to act? 
2.	The author doesn't explicitly distinguish normative and empirical contexts in his discussion, but it seems that Team Thinking (at least for Sugden) is primarily an empirical hypothesis to explain certain empirical observations (e.g. Hi-choice in Hi-Lo games, C-choice in Prisoner's Dilemma games, etc.), while others are normative theories of how rational agents ought to act based on their reasons. As a result, it is not clear whether the objections of 'magical thinking' and 'recklessness' are empirical (people don't reason like that) or normative (people shouldn't reason like that). I presume the author's main interest is in the normative aspects, but at least this should be mentioned (see also 6 below). 
3.	About the 'mirroring assumption' that "the unit of action mirrors the unit of agency"(p.11): is this the author's formulation, or someone else's in the literature? What exactly is the unit of 'agency'? It seems that the author interprets Sugden as committing to this assumption, but as far as I remember one of the Sugden's (2000) points is that preferences capture whatever the agent desires in rational choice theory, so team preferences are on a par with individual preferences (the agent desires her team's preferences to be satisfied, rather than her own). Does this amount to that the agent identifies herself with her group? Or is she merely identifying her preferences with those of the group? It seems that it's possible to do the latter without doing the former. In other words, what exactly is the individual agent doing when she 'shares' team-level evaluation/goal? My point, I guess, is that in order for the 'mirroring assumption' to be useful in elucidating the different commitments in different theorists (e.g. possibilists, team reasoning theorists), it needs to be more precisely and clearly formulated. 
4.	The author uses 'Team Thinking' and 'Team Reasoning' interchangeably. Since the concept is not widely known, let alone accepted, it might be a good idea to be clear about the terminology. 
5.	Page 14, the end of the first paragraph: it might be useful to mention an obvious example, i.e. salience here. 
6.	Page 16, the first paragraph, first sentence: this might be too strong. Sugden's version of team reasoning is sensitive to the agent's prediction about whether other players are also team reasoners; Bacharach's (2006) 'circumspect team reasoning' is less sensitive, but still allows the agent to consider the unreliability of other players (maybe other players frame the context differently, maybe they are aware of the team-framing but risk averse). It's possible to maintain the strong claim by clarifying point 1, i.e. pattern-based reasoning as a normative theory doesn't rely on prediction at all, while Team Reasoning is an empirical theory and allow for the pattern-based reasons to partly rely on prediction. The second paragraph may be a response to my worry, but I'm not sure if I understand it. 
7.	Page 19. The second response: I understand that the author has no strong position on each response (except the fourth, his own, perhaps), but this second response obviously sounds question begging; for in many social/strategic contexts whether the situation is one in which disaster looms depends exactly on how players involved reason about other players' reasoning. In this sense, whether a situation is potentially disastrous partly depends on whether players reason conditionally or unconditionally. So how can you decide to reason conditionally or unconditionally based on the assessment of the degree of disaster, which partly depends on your very decision? 
8.	Page 20. Third paragraph; second sentence: maybe an example of such a case (e.g. prisoner's dilemma) will be helpful here. 
9. In many places spaces are missing between words.