Reviewer #1: 
1) I have changed "several philosophical accounts" to "Bratman's influential account" and then provided references to other accounts that also rely on group-intentions. I have also clarified in what sense Kutz thinks that group-intentions are characteristic for some (but not all) joint activities. 

2) I concede that my case was not very well grounded against the possibility that young children might have socially extended intentions-in-action. I have therefore made these remarks less strong and I also mention the intriguing possibility the reviewer brings up (quoting a footnote in Tollefsen's paper). 


Reviewer #2: 
In response, I have elaborated the examples in the paper in a few places, but only very little. I have also, I hope, explained some of the terminology a bit better. 


2) "The expression "joint activities where there is little room for personal-level deliberation and planning" is unclear without any examples of what such activities could be. Whereas some lack of clarity might be fine in the abstract, it would certainly be helpful if more information was provided on page 3 where this expression is mentioned in the text for the first time." 

I have added two examples to clarify this. 

3) - 6)	Done. 

7) I have removed the paragraph, which indeed wasn't relevant to the argument. 

8)	I have added a few references to empirical papers or papers that review empirical work regarding the different stages mentioned. 

9)	I have clarified the idea of intentions-in-action whose contents are not accessed by conscious experience with an example: "What Searle has in mind here, I think, is that intentional actions that are part of an agent’s repertoire of habits and skills may be performed while the agent is attending to some other task or is daydreaming. For example, while being engaged in writing this paper, I may grab the cup to my right side and take a sip of coffee without having a conscious experience of doing so." 

10)	The expression "pace Bratman himself" has been removed and the sentence changed. 

11)	"On page 15, what does "a certain restriction" refer to?" I have clarified this a bit by the following: 
"The question of whether or not to accept the own-body constraint is a matter of what content it makes sense for an intention-in-action to have, given the kind of mental state that an intention-in-action is." 


12)	Done. 

13)	On page 19, last sentence, what aspect of Searle's theory of individual intention and action is referred to here? Is this about the causal link between intention-in-action and its content? 
No, this refered to Searle's identification of the experience of acting with the content of an intention-in-action. This has been clarified. 


BIG THANKS TO BOTH REVIWERS!